---
layout: default
title: "Got Git?"
date: 2024-11-08 11:16:00 am
categories:
---

# <center> Got Git? </center>  
---  


Creating a personal website or blog doesn’t have to be complicated or costly. I wanted a simple, ad-free site to document my projects and ideas, and GitHub Pages turned out to be a new project I could use. Going this direction is a bit more technical then just signing up for a wordpress site, I consider myself a technical person and I had to do some googling and research to get it up and running. That doesn't mean its complicated, just means you will have to learn a couple things...(hold back your tears until the end).   

You might need a few things before you begin:  
- Computer
- Brain
- Github account, although I've added this step for your convenience 
- 


Step 1: Setting Up a GitHub Account  

If you don’t have a GitHub account yet, here’s how to get started:  

    Go to github.com and click on Sign up.
    Follow the prompts to create your account. You’ll need to provide a username, email address, and password.
    Once you’ve created an account, check your email for a verification link and follow it to confirm your account.

Now, with your new GitHub account, you’re ready to start building your GitHub Pages site!  


Step 2: Setting Up a Repository  

The first thing you need to create a GitHub Pages site is a GitHub repository. Here’s what I did:  

    Go to GitHub and create a new repository.  
    Name the repository [yourusername].github.io. (Replace [yourusername] with your actual GitHub username.) This name is essential because GitHub uses it to generate the website URL.
    I set it to public so anyone could view the content, and added a README file to get started with some basic content.  

Step 3: Configuring GitHub Pages  

With the repository set up, I enabled GitHub Pages:  

    In my repository’s Settings, I scrolled down to the Pages section.  
    I chose the main branch as the source for my GitHub Pages site, then saved the changes.  
    After a few moments, GitHub generated a URL for my site: https://[yourusername].github.io. This would be the home of my new blog.  
